Notes on CC2's checksum scheme
==============================

Background
----------

The "KEY " chunk in C2M files stores a 128-bit hash. This
was originally part of a scheme to prevent users from playing
levels not made with the official editor, but was ripped out
before the public release.[1]

The "LOCK" chunk was also part of the scheme. 

Most of the official levels still have vestigial "KEY " and
"LOCK" chunks but the editor no longer adds them to new files,
and their contents are ignored.

The "LOCK" value is usually "Custom version for Chuck Sommerville\0",
and an obfuscated version of this string appears in the
executable. However, some levels in the official pack have a
different value for it: usually the name of a member of the
Chip's Challenge community. It seems likely that this was the
name of a person to whom a beta copy was given.


Details
-------

The contents of every chunk between the "LOCK" chunk and the
"KEY " chunk are concatenated and hashed with a modified
version of MD5. This includes the contents of the "LOCK" chunk
but (obviously) not the contents of the "KEY " chunk. The
chunk name and length are NOT included in the hashed data,
just the contents. There is no delimiter between chunks.

The "CC2M" and "VERS" chunks always appear before the "LOCK"
chunk, and their contents are not[*] included in the hash.

[*]: Actually, VERS was added after the checksum scheme was
removed so its behaviour is special. It is not included when
writing the level but it does seem to be when reading.

The "PRPL" (replay) chunk appears after the "KEY " chunk, so
its contents are not included in the hash.


### Modified MD5 ###

The MD5 state is initialized with a nonstandard set of
constants, and the number of bits already processed is
initialized to 0x200 (512 decimal).

    A = 0xf8611bf2
    B = 0xee782ca4
    C = 0xf30869b2
    D = 0xb048f18f
    N = 0x200

These values are probably from an intermediate state reached
by processing one block of data. However, the input data which
led to this state is unknown, and likely infeasible to recover.

### Pseudocode ###

    MD5_init(h, <precomputed values>)
    for each chunk:
        if chunk.name == "CC2M":
            skip
        else if chunk.name == "KEY "
            break
        else
            MD5_Update(h, chunk.data)
    MD5_Final(h)

References
----------

[1]: https://www.facebook.com/groups/175825302437909/permalink/950827674937664/
